yo
hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
where are you coming from hope you all
are doing well
welcome back
yah let's go tear it up
welcome back everybody
good to see y'all
glad to have you back
alrighty folks versatile three wait till
you hear eight rari paper plate let's go
folks
day three of javascript turn up
what's going on
everybody glad you're in here glad
you're in here let's get some folks in
here
we got a
we got a good question today
you know we always like to start off
with our questions of the day and our
question of the day today is
would you rather be an extra like in a
really good like oscar-worthy film
or would you rather be
like the main character or have like a
really big part in like a terrible movie
extra in a really good like oscar-worthy
movie or like like big part in like just
a horrible trash movie
oh this one's this one's split
i'm seeing i've seen a lot of extra and
then it goes a lot of maine
i don't know
you could be in the background of like
that that big movie or you could be the
the the leading role or the big part in
the bad movie right i don't know
i think i'm going to go with
i was i was actually the i was leaning
towards extra
but i think i'm going to go
with a big part in a bad movie
right
big part
in uh in a in a bad movie and the reason
why is because like i would love just to
be able to like
share that
like this
this is like this is like a meme amongst
my friends
right like i think i think i think i
would get more enjoyment out of that
instead of being like oh look i was in
the background for a second you know
maybe maybe who knows maybe i'm an actor
at heart i don't know
still got it's pretty split i'm
surprised yeah
cool
alrighty folks thanks for getting in
here
glad you're here
welcome back
as we always let's start off with some
questions
let's get some questions as folks get in
here
let's get some questions if folks get in
here i always like to give folks a few
minutes to get in here i know you're
running from work or the kids or
whatever you're doing welcome
pepsi or coke coke absolutely all day
long like why it's not even a question
there is uh there's like a joke that
people used to do
um and i did it one time at a restaurant
when when the the waiter comes over and
they say like hey would you like
what would you like to drink and you say
like oh i love like a diet coke and they
go oh i don't i don't have coke how
about pepsi no one ever says like
absolutely not how dare right and so
some people
it was like this it was like a meme for
a while people like absolutely not like
no way like what are you talking about
i'll take water right
uh the good old days when i was a kid
yeah the the the uh the interesting
thing is the um
the like
i think with handily think taco bell
is like propping up pepsi i think if
taco bell got rid of pepsi it would just
go to shambles
the uh the what was the the
baja blast
that saved pepsi
other questions folks other questions
that are not
pepsi coke related
it's just a flame war between pepsi and
coke right now
dominoes or dominoes definitely dominoes
what do you do in your pomodoro breaks i
do what everything i tell you to do i
get up i do a quick stretch
i i do a specific back stretch that i've
shared um because that's going that's
that's what starts to hurt the longer i
sit down is like my hands my wrist and
my like like my mid the upper back so i
get my stretch in uh sometimes i cuddle
a dog or two
i grab some more water if i need more
water and then i come back but i also
stare out the window
like there's definitely people
near me that are like why is this guy
always staring in the in the window um
yeah you ever use standing desk yet i
mean this the desk i'm on right now is a
standing desk
i actually even have like a treadmill
that goes underneath of it that i use
every once in a while that's really fun
alright folks freelancing class good
question tuesday
so
next class is our freelancing class i'm
super excited uh so yeah a lot of folks
have been asking questions about
freelancing they started telling folks
about freelancing they're starting to
get some leads so yeah next class is our
freelancing class definitely hands down
one of my favorite classes you
absolutely do not want to miss tuesday's
class it's a lot of fun
and uh let's get you some money y'all
get you some money y'all
all right thank you for the questions
and uh caleb with the hydration cheers
to you
thank you very much
we're going to see hydration is going to
be a theme this evening
hydration's going to be a theme this
evening all right folks
we're doing it all over again
we're doing it again
we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna loop
the beat and do it again so you're like
leon this agenda looks exactly like the
agenda from last class
and the astute ones among us would be
correct this is the exact exact agenda
from last class guess what it's the same
examples thank you different
it's it's the same examples
it's the same code because what did i
ask you to do i asked you to go ahead
delete it and then redo it so guess what
we're going to do we're going to get our
spaced repetition in we're going to
delete everything we're going to redo it
and this is great for every level here
right
i don't care if nothing clicked and i
don't care if everything clicked
loop the beat
do it again
come back make the neural connection
stick when you have time to to delete
everything and do it see how fast you
can do it see how good your recall is
push in that moment
right
we're doing it all over again so ask
good questions when things don't make
sense ask those questions again we're
going to redo it again
all right
so if you
kind of last last tuesday's class was a
little panic inducing it's all right
we're here to enjoy a roller coaster
ride to play with some legos and we're
going to play with them again
right the interesting thing
is
we are at a point
in your learning journey
where
it's not about understanding
the raw concepts
right it's not about understanding like
even though we're talking about the big
four the variables the conditionals the
functions loops even though we're
talking about them
we're not really there at the point
where we're breaking them down and
really understanding those components
we're literally just trying to see stuff
and play with stuff and interact with
things so that when we actually do
tackle those subjects for real it's not
your first time seeing them that's the
whole point of this and last class is to
just see stuff in action if you've never
actually seen javascript it's a fool's
errand to jump in and have a complete
understanding of conditionals loops
functions it does nothing for you you
haven't seen it in action so today and
tuesday is about seeing stuff playing
with stuff breaking stuff i don't care
if you don't understand query selector
or ad event listener
we're not there yet your idea is to see
oh there are all these blocks that can
come together let me play
with those blocks
right that's that's the goal
so many folks want to run right into an
academic understanding of javascript and
it doesn't work for a lot of folks so
let's play let's build let's break let's
see how fast you can redo these
challenges if you already have
everything clicking for you and for
folks where you're still kind of picking
up the logs but it's not sinking that's
what tonight's for so this is hopefully
for everyone for folks that are
feeling like things aren't clicking and
for folks to feel like things are really
clicking this is a lot of value for both
of you so even though we're redoing
everything it's how fast can you go
through the things
what can you recall what do you remember
from last time delete it all do it again
cool
uh before i jump into class
um from the
from the very beginning course i ever
did online
so for those that don't know the 100
devs history
uh
i
posted on reddit
oh what is it now almost it's definitely
over a year
almost two years like a year and a half
year and a half ago and i had a intro
class it was just going to be like a
five-week class right i just went to see
if i could do this thing online
and so there are some folks that are
still with us from that original
five-week journey a lot of them are mods
now
but there are still a lot of folks
around from that five-week journey that
five-week journey turned into the first
iteration of 100 devs uh and then we're
here in the second cohort
but from that very first cohort that
that smaller five-week course
we had folks from ukraine
right from the from the very beginning
there were folks from ukraine so
tonight
uh my thoughts my feelings my prayers
everything i can send your way goes out
to y'all
if you are on discord and there's a way
that i can help or that this community
can help please reach out we're here
so i just wanted to say it before we
jump in tonight uh you've been a part of
this community from the beginning we're
here for you let us know how we can help
cool
all righty
we're going to go ahead yeah please be
safe
we've posted some resources uh chris one
of our mods posted some resources in the
general channel um if there's things we
can do to help or assist or spread
things let us know
cool
alrighty
we also have a lot of folks from canada
that are originally from ukraine uh so i
know that a lot of your friends your
families are
are in it right now so all my love to
you hope everyone's safe hope everyone's
doing well
alrighty tonight we're running it back
we're talking about programming js
basics we are going through all the
previous examples we're going to see
everything again we're looping the beat
we're doing it all again
all right
talk through some questions i want to
jump right into it it's a lot of stuff
to get into and we're going to add
functions on at the end
right we're going to add functions on to
the end
right so
if
everything is feeling good we're going
to keep pushing and we're going to add
this next of the big four the functions
and so i'm really excited to get these
functions locked down we've seen
functions we've played with functions
but now we get to actually use them and
understand them we're gonna talk about
arguments parameters all that fun stuff
and then you're gonna have some homework
to get into
all right
checking in
if you haven't checked in please please
do
uh go ahead and do exclamation point
check in here in chat also always in the
following materials channel also always
on um
the go live message or if you're just
following me on twitter you go ahead and
do that
cool
now
something really really important
that i've brought up before but i need
to bring it up again because it keeps
happening
okay
i am never
ever
going to text you
i don't text my friends i'm definitely
like not like i'm like like i don't text
right
i'm not going to text y'all
i'm not gonna text you you're never
gonna get a text from me
it's just not gonna happen i don't text
it's just not i just don't do it i
rather call people but i'm never gonna
text you
and i'm never gonna call you
you're never gonna get a call from me
ever
ever ever ever
never gonna get a text from me you're
never gonna get a call from me
you're never gonna get an email from me
that is not also posted on discord
you're never going to get an email from
me that's outside of the newsletter
there's never going to be like an email
where i'm talking directly to you and
only you
right it's always gonna be a generic
newsletter
that's going out
so i'm never gonna text you
i'm never gonna call you
i'm never gonna send you an email
outside the newsletter
i'm never gonna dm you on twitter like
i'm not gonna reach out to you
maybe if you dm me i i respond to you
but i'm not gonna ever reach out to you
on twitter
i'm never gonna dm you on discord please
don't dm me on discord i don't i don't i
don't check them mod mail leon channel
right so i'm never going to text you i'm
never going to call you and they're
going to email you outside the
newsletter hashtag newsletter by the way
i'm never going to go on my way to dmu
on twitter i'm not going to dm you on
discord and i'm never ever going to ask
you for money
ever
because there's like this same scam
that's been going on for like a year now
where somebody texts someone they're
like hey you got a minute right they say
hey you got a minute and then it's like
some weird jumbled mess where they want
you to send gift cards i'm never gonna
text you and if i text you i'm not gonna
be rude about it that's the thing that
gets me the most about this like scam is
just they're just rude like i would
never be that rude if i was going to
text someone i'm not going to like text
you
and then say hold on i need a i need a
minute
like i just no like first like do better
like scammer do better like i'm never
going to be rude
right like get out of here um but i'm
never going to text you i'm never going
to call you i'm never going to email you
i'm never going to dm you i'm never
going to discord dmu
and i'm never ever going to ask you for
money so i just need to put that out
there because there's always people that
are sending like fake emails with my
name on them fake twitter accounts a
bunch of stuff we have a really big
community don't get scammed
grandma doesn't need
grandma doesn't need gift cards
i'm not stuck somewhere i don't need
your help
i'm not gonna call you if i do need that
help okay
so please be careful in these streets
i love you all i just ain't texting
y'all
right
so be careful don't get got
uh i don't give money don't buy gift
cards for people like this doesn't make
sense uh and if you get a message from
me and they're rude just know that
that's not me i would not do that
all right folks be careful in these
streets i just need to put that out
there don't get got
and also if you're scamming do better
like these are like they're like they're
dumb scams be better come on have pride
in yourself
all right anyway
speaking of
friends
speaking of friends uh we have the study
communities that have been formed
uh folks that filled out the original
two forms have been added
folks that were late to filling out the
forms or something funky happened
you've had the chance to fill out the
additional form
so as the moderation team has time we'll
go through that list and add folks
but it's going to be a while we need a
little bit of a break before we can kind
of keep chugging through that
we won't be adding more folks to them if
you haven't filled out the forms
and i just wanted to say like it's just
an extra space for you to hang out right
just an extra space for you to interact
with folks
it's not something that like you're
you're missing out on a quintessential
experience it's just a smaller place to
hang out to get to know folks and so
we're gonna have a networking night uh
in
a week's time so not this upcoming week
but the following week and kind of
similar how we did with remo we're gonna
try using a different platform um and
we're going to have like a really fun
networking night where we're gonna
network between all the different study
communities so
uh i know a lot of folks have been
trying to
think about ways
that they can uh that they can kind of
join the study communities
pazzo hey thank you for the raid hope
you're doing well thanks for bringing
the crew by
thank you so much hope you're doing well
what were you all up to what are you all
working on
or doing
welcome welcome
thanks for the raid uh so for for folks
that are too new to around these parts
uh we're running a free 30-week software
engineering boot camp and so this is
class 14 of that boot camp we're getting
into some fun javascript tonight hope
your stream went well what were you up
to
cool
so
study communities
networking night not this upcoming week
the week after
right and so
just let you know that's going to happen
uh a lot of folks have been
asking especially in the location-based
channel channels right and the
location-based channels folks have been
asking hey like i'm in like this very
specific area how do i like connect with
folks
create a thread we turn threads back on
in the study communities in the location
channels so
if you are in a specific location
channel but you want to talk to folks
that are i think somebody asked about
minneapolis today right just create a
thread for minneapolis inside of your
location channel
be careful like if you create like
outside discords and you lead people to
that discord that does violate our rules
we will
we will kind of ban you like we're just
going to be real about that
yeah
yeah so please use the threads don't
lead people to unmoderated spaces that's
one of our biggest rules
atx um yeah
we're coming for you
yeah and for folks that haven't been at
it yet that's okay we're gonna work
through that list as we can
alrighty folks
submitting work there's nothing to
submit tonight
all right nothing to submit tonight uh
please make sure that you are still
doing the work you're you're re doing
the reading you're doing the task
right
right we're doing the tasks
make sure you finish up those tasks
because next week i'm going to ask you
to submit proof of those tasks right so
i'm not asking for it tonight because i
know some folks are still on the reading
but make sure you're doing the task at
the end of the reading and i'm going to
ask for you to submit those next week
but tonight nothing to submit make sure
you're still getting the reading in make
sure you're still getting done the
repetition in and we're going to add on
to that homework this evening
cool
ads
one of the
common complaints we've been getting
is that at some points during stream uh
folks that don't have a sub
um the ad start playing and they can't
hear me
uh or new folks that join us they
they get ads and they have to wait
through the ads before they can join the
stream
so i don't really have a hundred percent
control over when ads run i'm not
running ads that's kind of a twitch
thing um but apparently if i run ads and
i think we tried this last cohort too if
i run ads um during our breaks that
would stop ads from running
running uh during the stream so when we
take our breaks and we're like walking
away for five minutes i'm gonna run
three minutes of ads
not because i wanna run ads it's just so
that folks that don't have a sub or a
gifted sub
don't get ads if they're not using some
other means
okay so
make sure
to put that out there so i think i think
that solves it because you should be
like getting up walking away i'm never
saying anything anyway and so when we
take our break i'm gonna run the ads
that way folks that are here and don't
have that privilege don't have to sit
through ads and they can they can hear
us
cool
dabble hey thank you for the gift of
subs i appreciate you
thank you for being here
all right
coffee chats
god i got a bone to pick with some of
y'all honestly
uh something i want to bring up
look
when when somebody goes out of their way
to set up a coffee chat with you
please show up
don't ghost them
at least send them an email or a message
saying hey i can't make the coffee chat
don't be disrespectful
don't be rude
like that people are taking time out of
their day to meet with you they schedule
some time with you show up
like we've had some folks come to me say
hey leon i set up a bunch of chats with
uh some some folks from 100 devs and
they didn't show up
so not only are you ruining it for
yourself but you're also ruining it for
everyone else and a hundred devs so
please if you know you can't show up the
coffee chats don't book them don't reach
out the folks and when you do have a
coffee chat it's okay if you're going to
miss it but you got to let people know
you got to send them an email you got to
send them a message
right
don't be rude don't be disrespectful and
realize that you're you're you're
ruining it for a lot of other folks not
just yourself
okay
so please
make sure if you're doing these coffee
chats you're reaching out to folks that
set up time to talk to us we have so
many wonderful folks that have been
setting up calendars specifically to
help folks from 100 devs
right specifically to help folks that
are 100 devs setting up hundreds of
chats really
show up
um i'm going to say if this keeps
happening this will definitely be put
into our rules and will lead to a ban
like if we just can't have it
show up to your chat or at least let
people know
it's just something that really
looks bad
so please don't make us look bad
all right
cool
next thing
we're two classes into javascript folks
two classes
two
i never want to take a second
take a deep breath
you know deep breath
let it go
there are two classes in the javascript
it should not make sense it should not
be clicking you are learning a brand new
language
you should have a handle on a few words
but really have no idea how to put those
words together
think about if you are learning a brand
new like spoken language if you were two
classes in you would know some
vocabulary but you probably wouldn't
know a lot of grammar like you're not
gonna know how to like put the words
together you're gonna be able to
recognize oh that's an event listener
i don't know how it works with the other
stuff or that's how i grab something
from the dom but i i don't know how it
works with the other things
right
we're here to play
with some legos
right we're here to play with some legos
you're two classes in
you can't put that pressure on yourself
you can't put that woe as me into your
head
you can't let the imposter syndrome
creep in we talked about imposter
syndrome for like an hour last class you
can't let that creep in
your two classes in
for some folks javascript clicks very
quickly and for some folks it takes a
little bit of time
but that's how everything goes in
engineering some topics come quick some
topics come slow and just because
javascript is not coming quick to you
doesn't mean other topics won't
every single time i i teach there are
folks that get certain topics faster and
some that take a little bit longer it's
just due to the mental models that we
already have in our brains right
and so you can't you can't be mad at the
person that's on the same roller coaster
that's a few carts ahead
take your time
take some deep breaths
take some of that anxiety and imposter
syndrome off of your
shoulders right it will work it will
click it will happen for you but this is
not the week
this is not the week for most of the
folks
and another thing too
is you have to be willing to play
right be willing to play
one of the coolest things that i've been
seeing on twitter and on discord is just
folks that are playing right that are
being like what if i change this
background
what if i what if i make this click
event do something else so don't be
afraid to play to don't be afraid to try
and change things to break stuff and
when things don't go your way
get on discord get in the get in the
javascript help or the homework help and
ask questions why does my click event
not work
right
the thing that i want like the one thing
i just don't want you to do
is when other folks are sharing things
they put a lot of hard work into
right that should not be something that
makes you upset about yourself
right that's not something should that
should make you feel bad about yourself
because somebody else had a good project
so far you have no idea of their
background their experience their
previous mental models the things that
enable them to learn that material or
how much time they had to play how many
times they delete it redid broke didn't
work did work
right
you have no idea
you don't have no idea the privileges
they have or the privilege of time that
they have you can't look at what other
people are doing and compare that to
yourself you're we're all in the same
rollercoaster we're just in different
spots
right and so look at yourself can you do
something more
than you could do last class can you do
something more than the class before are
you progressing are you putting in the
work
right
right are you putting in the work are
you deleting redoing have you done that
have you deleted and redone it five six
seven ten times till you don't have to
look at it anymore because that was the
homework that's what i asked you to do
right did you do that because if you
haven't done that then you you don't
have room yet
to feel bad
right
you have to make sure that you don't if
you still have to look at the code to
type it out you haven't done the
homework yet
and that's a good thing that's a great
thing i love when people come to me and
say leon i didn't do i didn't put in the
work great because you could put in the
work and get there
right you got some room to improve
exactly
so
put in the work
give yourself some time
and if you did put in the work and
things start clicking that's okay get on
discord ask questions thing will come
with time and guess what we're gonna do
it all again tonight
we're gonna get our space repetition in
i i preach space space repetition and
then we do space repetition because it
works i don't care where you're at on
the roller coaster you can all benefit
from space repetition
right letting those neural connections
really solidify right really locking
things down pushing yourself to see if
you can recall
right
and so when somebody else posts
something on twitter that's an amazing
project
congratulate them
and know that you'll get there soon if
you're not there yet but you have to put
in the work
imposter syndrome has no room
for these next couple weeks it just
there's just no space for it don't allow
your brain to have space for that
because you're two classes in you would
never ever put that stress on yourself
if you were learning another another
language
right if you were learning japanese or
or spanish for the first time you would
never you would never say to yourself
after two classes i'm mad that other
people can speak more than i can it just
does it's just not it's not it's not
fair
it's not fair to yourself
you got this it will click give yourself
time put in the work ask tons of
questions one of my favorite things i
loved when we um
when we rate it splashly uh spl actually
said something really impactful that i
think helped a lot of folks and they
said the number one mistake that they
made early on was what anybody remember
what they said the number one mistake
they made early on was
exactly they didn't ask enough questions
you got to get over that mental hurdle
that stops you from asking questions
right and when i say mental hurdles i
don't i'm not trying to alienate folks
that have
issues that prevent them from asking
questions that's not what i'm saying if
you do have that please
find folks that can help with those
specific issues but for the folks that
don't have those you got to be able to
break through that barrier that says i
don't i shouldn't ask questions
right it's such a common theme for new
students to javascript right it's just a
common theme for new folks to coding to
not ask questions because when you ask
questions some folks feel
and i i'm using this term like they feel
not smart
right when they feel like they if they
feel like they have to ask questions
they feel like for some reason they're
not smart yet the smartest folks ask the
most questions
right the most brilliant people i've
ever met are the people that sit there
and ask question after question after
question i've been around some some
smart i taught at harvard
i taught at mit
i've been around some some brilliant ass
people and the most brilliant people
i've ever encountered asked so many
questions
they didn't let that that thing in the
back of their brain
tell them
right that they shouldn't ask they did
they didn't care they they want it to
understand and the only way to
understand a lot of new topics is to ask
questions and to get better at the
questions that you ask asking questions
is a skill
right and you get better at it the more
you do it eventually you'll be able to
ask questions that laser in on the
problem that you're having and things
click that much quicker but it's a skill
you have to build up so
give yourself some grace
give yourself some breathing room things
will come with time if you put in the
work and realize the biggest thing you
have to do right now
is ask
questions
cool
all right
now tonight
night
the hydration is
cheaper folks
hydration tonight is only 3 000 channel
points that's a that's that's 66 off
folks
and so i think i set it up that we can
do one hydration every 10 minutes and so
mike crow soft
thank you for the hydration
only one person can do it every 10
minutes but the hydration is at a
discount
it's at an all-time low folks okay
so is this bait i'm just trying to get
people away from the from the from the
only fans right um so tonight i want you
to hydrate with me we're doing review
we're looping through everything again
we're doing everything again it's gonna
be a lot of the same material it's gonna
be a lot of the same talking a lot of
same thing so i want us to go through
this
review this this repetition in a healthy
manner we're gonna take some of the
stress off our plate we're gonna hydrate
together and so if you're able what i
want you to do right now is to go get
something to hydrate with if you're able
i want you just i'm gonna stop talking
i'm gonna give you a minute to go get
some water or some something and every
single time i hydrate i want you all to
hydrate
right i'm gonna take we're gonna take
this as a nice smooth pace
we're gonna do this together and so if
you don't already have your hydration
i'm gonna give you a minute to go get
your hydration
bring up my timer here
take your minute
i won't move on
go ahead go get your water go get
something we're going to hydrate
together tonight
whenever i get a hydrate you get a
hydrate
we code together you hydrate together
exactly difficult
if you're able please
i'm going to order the 2 liter from
domino's real quick hey
this coffee count yeah so i'm drinking
tonight
got 30 seconds left please yes you the
person that is able to get up that can
go get some hydration that is not
getting hydration yes you get up please
go get hydration
i'm back you got 20 seconds
tequila counts
tara welcome back
mint tea nice raspberry lemonade
everybody spam and chat what you got
what do you what are you using hydration
folks arizona green tea i had that in a
minute
got the got the
the water gangs in here all right i see
y'all
from t for loco
i was lagging on my cups this helps hey
get in here
turn up
all right cool
everybody's got some good hydration
let's do this thing
remember the hydration can go off every
10 minutes so let's do it
cool let's jump into it
golden rule separation of concerns we
keep our content in our html our style
and our css our behavioral interaction
our javascript why
why do we do this
yes organization lovely for the
organization now as we start to add more
languages more stuff to our projects it
becomes even more critical to keep
things separate we technically could put
our html our css and javascript all in
one file but it wouldn't help us stay
organized it wouldn't help us work well
together
somebody asked me and they asked leon
channel
will we get practice with agile and
working in teams hell yes
as we get further into the program we do
more and more team projects you're going
to be paired up with folks in groups to
work on code as though you're at a real
organization
and so you need to start practicing that
organization now so that when you're in
those team projects you're not acting a
hot mess
cool we talked about ids and classes and
we're starting to see them come into uh
into play
we saw ideas as a way to start grabbing
individual things from the dom or
putting things back into individual
places into the dom the ideas start to
go hard right like they they really do
help us when it comes to javascript
we also saw a little hint at classes
what did we use classes to do
what did we use classes that was pretty
cool last class what what did it enable
us to do
yeah enable us to like
enabled us to use a class name
to like add some css or remove some css
so we can add a class and we could add
some css we could remove a class and get
rid of some css we can even toggle those
classes on and off so we were used to
using our classes just for style but now
we can use javascript
to turn those styles on and off which is
really cool
we also saw the ability to select
multiple objects exactly multiple things
from the dom that we then went and put
event listeners on so we saw the ability
to like
to add and remove classes but we also
saw the ability to like target
everything with that class so that we
could do things like add event listeners
to all of our stuff pretty dope
cool programming
let's talk about it
to keep charlene exactly
uh a computer
will do
what you tell it
to do
right that's it at the end of the day
computer will do what you tell it to do
so a program what's a program folks
what's a program
get active today this is review come on
get your fingers typing
all right get into it get in the game i
know you're a little tired that's okay
drink some of your water get the fingers
going be participatory
all right yeah just instructions
a program which is a set of instructions
you write that tell a computer what to
do right just a set of instructions
the act of programming is writing those
instructions in a language that the
computer can understand
at a base level like at the machine like
at the metal level do our computers
understand javascript
like at like a very
low level like at the metal level do our
do our computers understand javascript
nah they don't they don't so javascript
right javascript
is the language that we use to
communicate our ideas
i want to add stuff i want to remove
stuff i want to add some numbers i want
to remove some numbers like all the
things that we that we were able to like
see
in our code right the things that we're
able to talk about
right that's what javascript helps us
with and we we see this come out and
play and it reminds us of why
independence day is a true story why is
independence day a true story chat
bub i see a lot of bubs
yeah binary upload
boom
it's this idea
that
even though
the alien ships were using some sort of
alien language we could break it all the
way down to like simple logic to simple
logic maybe all the way down to binary
on and off we're assuming that on and
off is a universal constant right and
then from those universal concepts we
can build all the way back up to a
language that can infect the alien
mother ships bring the shields down and
uh we saved the world
cool
i have said
what did she say
why are we learning the computer
language not the computer understanding
our language seems backwards computers
more processors than me exactly maybe
one day
alrighty so that leads us to javascript
a language that we can all
understand and like i don't understand
it yet that's okay you'll get there
right it's a language that's human
readable right something that we can
share amongst each other look at it and
have a good idea of what's happening in
that program
so eventually
exactly
alrighty now one of the harder things in
the beginning is that javascript has its
own syntax it's the spelling and grammar
rules it's the way that we write out
this programming language and the syntax
has a lot of stuff that makes it hard at
first you're seeing all these new
special characters
right
you're seeing ticks and bangs and blings
and curly braces and all this stuff that
we don't really ever use
in like day to day just like writing
normal stuff and so that syntax can
can
can make the learning process all the
more difficult and so that's why we
spend a lot of time
working on these examples together
because i want you to be able to see all
these different pieces i don't need you
to understand the pieces i just need to
see you to see the building blocks that
when we do do a deeper dive into stuff
it's not your first time seeing it
that's why i give you the reading that's
why i give you some videos that's why we
do things over and over again i just
don't want you to show up and it's the
first time you've ever seen javascript
right by now you should have watched the
goats video brad traverses video on
javascript you should have read two to
four chapters of the js way you should
have had last class like it's it's
momentum the ball is rolling it
shouldn't be the first time you see
stuff and it's not the first time you
see stuff from different angles right
the the reason why i give you so many
other resources is because sometimes you
need to hear it in a different way or
see it in a different way for it to
click
right
i i hey
someone hydrate it yo turn up all right
everybody
you're able hydrate
thank you
someone cheers cheers everyone
get the hydration in we're hydrating
together tonight well done well done
all right
solute there we go
cool so
we have this idea right that we
we're going to build over time
these building blocks
but it's a it's a process you have to
see things multiple times from different
angles one of the things i do
one of the things i do really early on
is whenever something doesn't make sense
i ask questions i ask people questions
and while i'm waiting for people to
respond to my questions i try and look
at different materials i'll look at a
video i'll look at some reading i'll try
it in a different way i'll try playing
with it right
of course digimon yeah of course
i'll try doing it from different angles
that's why i try to give you some
different angles just to help things
click in a little bit different way
okay
all right chat what are variables
fancy boss coder it's this course that's
what it is
buckets exactly they're buckets that we
can store data in
what type of data have we seen so far
what type of data types have we seen so
far buckets hold our data but what kind
of data have we seen so far
chef curry with the shot
oh sorry chef curry with the pot steph
curry with the shot there you go
yeah we saw strings and numbers
strings and numbers so far and maybe
yeah some people are throwing out
booleans we've talked about true and
false right
yeah we saw we saw some strings we saw
some numbers so far these are the
different things that we can store in
our variables so far cool
variables are just a way we can tell our
program to remember to use something
later on
the entity we use to store those values
we call
a variable
right
now there are two steps that you can
follow when you're creating variables
and actually we're going to see this
come up again a little homage as we get
close closer to functions when we the
end of class tonight will be some new
stuff with functions right can variables
equal functions they can they can and
we're going to see that a little bit
later
all right so we have two steps we have
our computer has some lovely memory
beautiful we got some lovely memory
and there's two steps
the declaration what does the
declaration step do
yeah it creates the space in memory the
declaration creates that space
so in our memory is now a space called
age
at this point after running this line of
code
does that space have any value
does that space have any value in it
no
so a good question is if we were to ask
for age right now
what would we get back
like if we asked for age what would we
get back
yeah we would get undefined right we
would get undefined
the the program like javascript knows
that there is a space in memory called
age it can just see that there's nothing
inside of it so we would get undefined
back if we tried to use it we wouldn't
get like a big error that would like
break everything or just say hey the
space you're talking about there's
there's no
there's nothing in it all right
something in it
but when we get to the second line here
this lovely assignment stage this is
where we can put that value into that
bucket
into that space in memory right and so
we can go ahead and put 25
in that bucket now if we ever ask for
age right if we ever ask for age we're
going to get 25 now because 25 is stored
in that space in memory right
and it will get 25 back until what
happens
there's something that could happen that
would make it so we don't get 25 anymore
what could happen
yeah
we could eventually reassign h right we
could go ahead and do
age
plus equals
n
all right
now age is going to have 10 added to it
so now h would be 35.
this is a fancier way of saying
something like age
equals age plus 10. right these are
these are both the same they're just
different ways of doing the same thing
cool let's play with this a little bit
let's just see this real quick before we
move on
it's going to use the console here let's
go ahead and let
a dog age equal
four
all right
so on this line i did what two things
what did what what two things did i just
do here
what two things did i just do here
yeah i declared
and i assigned
what's the keyword that let me know that
i was doing declaration
yeah it's let what are some other
keywords that can help us declare
variables
yeah we got let const and var we haven't
really seen var yet we will see it when
we get to something called scope
right when we get the scope we'll see
var var still kind of has a place right
but it's different now everything
changed when we got to es6 plus
the newer versions of the javascript
specification or the ecmascript
specification we'll go deeper on that in
a bit
cool
all right if i wanted to add
six
to dog years i could do a couple things
or dog age i mean i could do
dog age
equals
i could do dog age
equals dog age plus six
right and if i ask for dog age you can
see that i get 10 now
i could also do
dog age
uh plus equals
and i could do let's do five right and
now if we ask for dog age we get 15
right so there's just different ways of
adding right we saw the ability to do
the the value plus the value
the plus equals the cool thing is you
can do like asterisk equals for
multiplication minus equals for
subtraction all of them kind of work
there
and then there's one other one
that people will see a lot which is uh
dog age plus plus
right and plus plus
dog age
interesting
anybody catch the difference between
the plus plus at the end
or the plus plus at the beginning
um
some some some folks are getting gap
it didn't add two that's not what
happened it didn't add two
yeah
so something happened
when you have plus plus at the end right
the way you can think about it is that
this line executes
and then it adds one
so it did the line
right it did the line
and then it executed the addition so
that's why we see 15.
at this point dog age actually was
right dog age actually was 16.
it just it did the console log before it
did the addition
the the line executes and then the
addition happens with this the addition
happens and then the line executes
so you're like what the heck let me show
you
let's let's see what dog age is right
now
we're at 17.
all right
let's go ahead and alert
dog age
plus plus
you ready
what do we think is going to show up in
the alert
well i'm seeing
seeing 18 i'm seeing 19 i'm seeing 17
kind of all over place all right let's
do it three two one
seventeen
excuse me
what
hold on
excuse me
that alert says i know it's really tiny
but that alert says 17.
let's let's go back and look
i said 17 in the alert but let's ask
what dog age is again wait dog age is 18
why the heck did it alert 17 if it was
actually 18
well what happened is the alert happened
before the increment happened
right the alert was faster than the
increment
right so we got the alert of 17 and then
it added one right so whenever you do
plus plus know that line of code is
going to execute and then the addition
is going to happen
if we do it the other way
i'm sorry i'm just going to i was going
to treat a
dog ages alert we do it the other way
plus plus
uh dog age
what do you think we'll get in the alert
now
what do you think is going to hap what
are we going to get in the alert
yeah all right i think folks got it now
let's try it
ready three two one
19 exactly we were at 18 we did plus
plus dog age it did the incrementation
right did the incrementation and then
the alert happened
so just be careful
if you're going to use the plus plus
syntax right if you're going to use the
plus plus syntax just know
right just know the way it's going to
execute
can you do minus minus you can yeah
oh uh uh boost this
boost this three with the hydration
cheers to you everyone hydrate come on
this is a difficult topic everyone
hydrate with me real quick
gonna hydrate
if you don't get this what should you do
if this doesn't make sense to you what
do you all need to do
what do you got to
do i'll play with it exactly you got to
get in here you got to get in the muck
you got to go in here and be like all
right
dog age
is that 19
all right what happens if i do plus plus
dog age what should it be
all right it went up by i went up by one
all right that made sense right you got
to come in you got to play with it you
got to break it you got you got it you
got to do it for yourself right a lot of
this stuff i'm going to show you cool
things
right
i'm going to show you cool things and in
the moment there's a lot of things that
are not going to be like zoop zapped
into your brain a lot of these cool
things i'm showing you is that you can
come back and be like all right leon
showed this thing it didn't click how
can i play with it how can i break it
and if you get stumped you ask questions
on discord
right this is gonna happen over and over
and over and over again if learning the
code was easy everyone be a software
engineer making good money
but this is it you're in the trough of
sorrow they're going to be things that
just don't click in your brain i can't
tell you
how many things i have learned that for
a full week did not make any sense
just straight up
full weeks
of me having no idea
why did the thing that it did or why it
should do the thing that it did
or or how i could do it right
and so in the moment
you got to be able to come back
come back and play with it you got to
come back and like all right plus plus
on here plus plus on that and come back
to it
right
you can always come back and rewatch the
video you can do the exact the same
exact examples i do you could have the
video up on one side you could have your
console up on the other you could do it
exactly at the same time you have to
play with it i'm going to show you stuff
that's not going to make sense in the
moment it's up to you your job is to
come back and play with it
cool
folks are saying why would we ever not
use plus plus because maybe sometimes
you want the line to execute before the
addition happens
right sometimes you want that that that
odd behavior
you'll see it
keep pushing
uh camel case is a variable connection
uh variable convention that i like to
use uh meaning that my first word is
lowercase
right is lowercase and then every other
word is uppercase
right
all my id's name my class names
everything will be in a camel case so
all my examples will be camelcase i
recommend that you use camelcase but
it's up to you if you want to
whatever you do use be consistent
all right
let's let's power through the the uh
the the two different types of data and
then we're gonna take our break
excuse me two types of data and then
we'll take our break
all right we've seen two different types
of data so far we saw our strings which
are pieces of text remember with strings
if we use the double quotes on the
outside what can't we use on the inside
very specific question if we use double
quotes on the outside what can't we use
on the inside
yeah we have double quotes on the
outside you can't use double quotes on
the inside unless
we do what
unless we do what
yeah unless we escape them exactly we
can escape them with the the backslash
and we'll be good same thing you can't
have you have single quotes on the
outside you can't have single quotes on
the inside unless
you escape them with the backslash
cool
we also saw numbers
and in javascript you can have two
different kinds of numbers you can have
integer values which are like our whole
numbers
and we can have our floated values which
are numbers with decimal places
we can also have side numbers so
positive and negative and we can do
arithmetic addition subtraction
multiplication division modulus modulus
gives us the what
yeah gives us the remainder exactly nice
cool
once we know our arithmetic we can start
making decisions right and these
decisions
uh all come down to the ability to
evaluate a true
or false
statement so to understand if something
is true
or false we have to be able to do
comparison
right so in javascript it's a little
funky we can compare not only numbers to
numbers but also strings to strings
and there are three different types of
equal signs
one equal sign is always what chat
we're gonna take a break in a few
seconds here
one equal sign is always what
assignment exactly
and then two equal signs is comparison
of what
two equal signs is comparison of what
value exactly and three equal signs is
value and type like is it the same
values like three equal to three and
then type is is it are they both numbers
are they both strings
right beautiful
and once we understand this comparison
we can actually start to include this in
our conditional syntax cool let's pause
here let's take our five minute break if
you're new around these parts
uh every top of the hour like take a
five minute break to be healthy to
stretch to move around if you are able
get up add some more liquids to your
hydration station and we'll be back in
five you're watching us on youtube go
ahead and give us a thumbs up go ahead
hit that notification bell go ahead and
give us a subscribe and we'll be back in
five
i'm gonna pull up the timer here
if you're if you're watching on youtube
please please
take the breaks too
don't just speed through the break like
please take the break
all right
five minutes on the clock remember i'm
gonna run ads that you're like forced to
take the break and so that folks don't
get ads during stream
all right peace see in five
yeah wait until everybody comes back for
the hydration
imagine the secrets bob knows
why and how did you get your manchester
united scarf i've had that for forever
i had that scarf for
14 15 years now
will there be another t spill soon yeah
we're gonna start doing more of the t
spills i basically kind of want to have
like a twitter space or something
similar once a week
so i've been kind of like starting to
book those with folks
and so i think maybe like next week and
the week after is when we'll kind of
start so we'll have a lot of
um alumni coming through we'll have lots
of special guests coming through and so
we're gonna be doing at least one a week
and so we're gonna pick it up
a lot of folks have a lot of value out
of the last one so we're gonna
pick up the pace a little bit with those
cool folks come on back come on back
rock and roy cinema mail
all right folks come on back
when we start coding challenges next
week next week
hey veggie no worries
all righty all right everybody's back
uh if you're able please go ahead and
hydrate with us uzi 1088 with the
hydration cheers to you thank you so
much
i did would it i did and i'll keep
saying it
alrighty cheers to you
let's get back into it
how many programming languages do you
know all of them because i know how to
program so it's just a matter of
googling a few more things
all right
that's the brilliance like once you like
and now how many languages do i know
well
is a very different it's a very
different
different question but i i'm i'm i'm i'm
good with my pseudo code i'm good with
my googling i can figure most stuff out
i know my big four my functions my loops
conditionals
all right
my variables
cool
let's get into it all right we talk
about this conditional syntax
like the ability to
right
the ability to make decisions
and so if a condition is true
we do what is inside the curly braces
oh you're a while and about drinking too
much water
alrighty so here we have the
three different things you will see in a
conditional block you will see an elf an
ilf and if
to start off
the conditional block you will have an
else if
if the if was not true
you can have as
many else if i tried to say elsif and if
at the same time and it came out that
way
you can have an if
you can have an else if
and then you can have an else
right and so the idea here is that you
can have as many else ifs as you want so
you can go to if the else if the else if
the else if the else if and then you can
fully stop
you do not need to have an else and else
is just if you want something by default
to happen and else will never have a
condition one of the common
one of the most common mistakes i see is
people will do an if and elseif and then
they'll put like parentheses after the
else no
you'll never you'll never have anything
after that it just automatically runs
and everything above it was false so
our tried and true example here
cons pizza equals dominoes we're using
cons because our pizza choice will never
change it will always be dominoes
right even though they ain't showing us
no love on twitter we got them more
engagement on twitter than they've had
in like the past couple months
no love
all right
still
our pizza choice is a const
all right our pizza piece of choice is a
const
it'll always be dominoes it's not going
to be reassigned right it's not going to
be reassigned
right
now
does pizza equal papa john's
no
it doesn't
does not equal papa john's in fact
i promise you would talk about papa
john's today
but world events
i i don't think it's it's fair to do
what we said we were gonna do
so
for now my
my my the thing that i that i am
heated about is that
let's see hold on one second here let me
open up a new window here i didn't put
it in the slides it's definitely gonna
be there on on on tuesday but hold on
one second
disgusting
look at them
disgusting look at them
look at them look at them
only 10k likes
only pathetic exactly only 10k likes
i know
that we can destroy their likes
i know that when everyone goes to
tic doc dot com slash at learn with leon
and we start posting our short form
content we're going to blow those likes
out the water so
starting next week
i'm going to be uploading a lot of short
form content
on tick tock
and on
youtube shorts
a lot of things that folks ask like
questions in the ask leon channel that i
feel like need to be
turned into like smaller videos that i
can give sort of advice on
and so
we're gonna go ahead
and and and
we're gonna start posting our short form
content and we're gonna we're gonna blow
our likes out the water
papa john's is gonna be at 10.4 after
the first week
right after the first week we got him
it's it's over they cut they done
right so just know short form content's
coming
here's the link if you want it
go ahead and give me a follow right now
all next week i'm posting good short
form content
and uh i'm on a mission
i'm on a mission
i'm on a mission i'm i want i'm coming
for their likes
i'm coming for their likes
coming for their likes
the content will be on tick tock
and it'll be on uh youtube shorts
[Laughter]
coming for them that's all i'm going to
say for now i'm going to say for now
coming form
all right
now
what is
the danger
of assignment
versus comparison
what is the danger
between assignment and
comparison
first try yeah
okay
first try yeah okay
oh we're gonna get papa john's on the
first try i get what you're saying
exactly on the first try
one equal sign will always be
reassignment
right one equal sign will always be
two and three equal signs will always be
comparison if you
accidentally just use one equal sign in
your ifs or your else ifs you're going
to wind up in reassignment and probably
a true statement even though you didn't
want it to be true
so be careful when doing comparison two
or three equal signs two for value three
for value and type then one for
assignment
all right remember you can have both the
bulk
you can have multiple conditions so if
your name is leon
and your status equals ballin
get a wink
beautiful
oh also we're going to talk about this
on tuesday but
on twitch
you can clip
beautiful moments like we just had
all right you you can clip beautiful
moments like we just had
and um you can actually upvote
you can actually upvote the clips
and what i'm going to do is i'll be
looking at a lot of those clips and
we're going to be turning those into
like our youtube shorts and things like
that so
i think after each class i'm going to
have like a thread where you can put
your clips in and
whoever has the best clip that we use on
our short form content you'll get like a
special role on discord so we'll have
one for each class so only one person
each class can get it and we'll pick the
best clip and you'll get a special role
in in uh discord which i think will be
pretty cool
cool
so feel free to clip
right yeah you don't have a clip don't
worry about you can find out after class
we can see multiple conditions where
you chuck woodchuck hey
thank you for the uh for the five gifted
subs
are you trying to like ask people to do
the like like the woodchuck thing
is that like your thing is like a
gimmick account that's pretty cool if it
is
thank you for the five kids it subs
thank you for being here
cool so we have we have
and where both of them have to be true
right
white thanks to why double it's just the
syntax of javascript you have to use the
both
right you do the both
and both of them have to be true and if
both of them true you do what's inside
the curly braces then we have or the
double pipe character right and the
double pipe character means only one has
to be true if it's saturday you stop and
you do what's inside the curly braces if
saturday wasn't true then we would look
at the other side and as long as that's
true you do what's inside of the curly
braces
now we had another hydration
amy lou smiles hey thank you so much
cheers to you
everybody let's hydrate please
ah cheers to you
alrighty
we had our class weekend or boring day
let's go ahead and open up that starter
code if you're new around here and you
need the starter code it's always on our
discord exclamation point
discord right
right
do the exemption point discord and
that'll get you to our discord community
once you agree to the rules we have a
follow along materials channel where you
can download all the starter code
alrighty
let's go ahead and look at the
class weekender boring
and
we have it already filled out
we have the ability let's go and open
this in the browser
right we can go ahead and say what day
it is
we can say
tuesday and
inspect
and when we click on tuesday
we get boring however if we change the
lowercase t
we get we have class
so
there was something
missing in our code
right that would enable it to work
with all
capitalization so
do some quick space repetition here some
quick recall
how can we change this
code to work
right to work
with any capitalization
chat's got it it's too lower case
exactly
so let's take a few seconds to walk
through this code and add the two lower
case alrighty
in our html
if we look in the dom here
we have our input
and we have the button that we are going
to actually click on we can even look in
the elements here and see
that the form the input has the id of
day so we're going to target that day to
get the value out
and we're going to have to look at this
button
right to click on
so
what i want to be able to do is to
listen for a click
on that button that has the id of check
grab the value out of the input make
sure that it's all lowercase and then do
my comparison let's take a peek
we've done just that we looked in the
dom remember the rendering of that html
and the css
right okay it doesn't really matter
which way you go
it's to go into the dom to look at the
rendering of the html set remember the
dom is not your files it's not your html
it's not your css
right it's the rendering of the html and
css
right so that's what the dom is right
it's the rendering so we're going to
look at that rendering
we're going to grab the thing
we're going to grab the thing that has
the id of check
so if we go and look right if we go and
look
we can see
that this button has the id of check so
when i say document dot query selector
right
right when i say document.queryselector
i'm saying look at this this is not chat
is this my html right here
is this my html
no
it's the rendering it looks like my htm
but it's not it's the rendering of my
html it's the document object now it's
the dom
it's the thing that we can go in and
manipulate
if i go in and manipulate this painting
this rendering my actual files don't get
touched as soon as i refresh
we re-read those files and repaint what
we see here so the cool thing is when i
say document.queryselector
i'm telling it to go into the dom
and find the thing in there that has the
id of check
right
so if we look
go into that dom find the thing that has
the idea of check and then add an event
listener what the heck is an event
listener
what is an event listener
it's a smurf exactly
event list is something that's sitting
on that element in the dom
waiting for you to click
right waiting for you to click and when
it hears you click
it's going to run a certain set of
instructions called check
right when it hears that click it runs a
certain set of instructions called check
and we can see here
here are our set of instructions with
the name of check
first thing we're going to do is we're
going to go back to that dom
we're going to find the thing that has
the id of day chat what had the idea of
day
what had the idea of day
yeah
the input had the idea of day so what
we're doing is we're looking at that
input
and we're taking whatever value is in it
so whatever value is in that input we
have pulled it out
right and normally it would just like
poof into thin air right we pulled the
value
right
you can pull the value out and we would
poof into thin air but it didn't
evaporate in the thin air because we did
what with it what did we do with that
value that we got out of the input what
do we do with it
yeah
we assigned it
we assigned it today
right the variable of day is now holding
that value we had a space in memory
we had a space in memory called
day and we put something in there
tuesday wednesday thursday friday we put
something in there right we assign it
that value
right before we were doing stuff really
simple like we were just doing like all
right day equals
tuesday right we were just assigning it
in the moment but now we see the
behavior and interaction that can happen
we can get that value out of the input
right we get that value of the input and
put it into our variable
cool now the other thing is here is that
we want to make sure
that our value is all lowercase and the
reason we make sure that it's all
lowercase is because if we look at our
comparisons
tuesday and thursday and saturday and
sunday are all
lower case
and so what we want to do is we want to
go ahead and go here and say 2
lower
right now does it matter what's put
inside right it doesn't matter what's
put inside
of that input
it'll be lowercase it'll it will it will
turn lowercase
right and so now we're going to get the
value out of the input
we're going to make sure that it's
lowercase
and then we can do our normal
comparisons
if the user types in like if we were to
save this and we would go back and the
user was to type in
capital s
saturday
right if the user was typing capital s
saturday what just happened when they
hit check right what happens when they
click check
is that we've gone the event listener
fires we run the set of instructions
that starts with check
this right here this document queries
like today value is actually right now
saturday
and then the two lower case
takes that saturday
and makes it lower case
then this saturday is what is put in
the variable of day
so anywhere i look at day now it's no
longer day
wherever i see day
is no longer a day it is now
lower case
saturday
right we use that variable everywhere
right we use that variable everywhere so
we don't have to constantly rewrite and
do it over again right
and so now we can go through since day
was everywhere right since day was
everywhere now we can do our comparison
does saturday equal tuesday
no
the saturday equal thursday
so now we go to our elsif
the saturday equals saturday
yes we finally have a true statement we
stop here
we console log it's the weekend
and then we're done
right so if we were to go if we were to
go back and look
in the console uh we would we would see
there it is the weekend if we let it run
right that's where the console is
but
we use variables so that we can compare
stuff
everywhere that's why that day is all
these different locations
what about the or it's just that you can
say because remember
there are two different days that we
could have class and there are two
different days that could be the weekend
just because it's saturday right doesn't
mean that it shouldn't be the weekend
it's either or so that's why the double
pipe character is there for the ore
cool
all right let's move on folks
angry parent simulator
let's take a peek at it
all right
we open this in the browser
over this in the browser
we have the ability to enter in three
names
bob
bobber
boppity
bobson
right we click on yell
boom we see bob bobber boppity-bopson
pop on up
anna
that able hey
everyone if you're able to go ahead and
let's go ahead and hydrate cheers to you
nice
refreshing
thank you cheers to you
we also had a stretch
oh we did have a stretch right let's see
uh egg for dinner thank you for the
stretch uh so we're gonna go ahead and
stretch if you're able please get up and
stretch
and i am going to
be right back i'm gonna stretch it's not
that kind of stream you know what you
gotta do if you want that kind of stream
oh yeah
now we're
back
we're back
all right so we entered in
three different values
and we clicked on yell and we saw those
values without even looking at the code
what do we know is happening if we were
to think through some pseudo code what's
happening here
if we were to think through some pseudo
code
what do we think's happening here like
what to get this effect to happen what
did we need to do
well
we need to be able to click
right so if we can click we know that
there's a what
if we can click we know there's a what
there's definitely a smurf or an event
listener that's listening for that click
and when that click happens
what did we have to do
we heard that click what did we have to
do
yeah
we had to get the value out of each
input
right we had to get the value out of
each input
and then we had to take each of those
values
and put them into the dom
we've seen this stuff already we've seen
the event listener
we've seen the ability to get stuff from
the dom the only thing that's slightly
new here
is the ability to put it into the dom
right so let's go and take a look at our
code
we can see that each of the inputs
has its own id
and so we're going to target them right
and then we have the button that we're
going to click on that has the id of
yell
then we have the place to put stuff
which has the idea of place to yell
right
let's go ahead and take a look
we have our event listener that we said
should be there right so when we click
on those boxes
we know to run the set of instructions
called run right we have the set of
instructions called run
and so here are the set of instructions
for run
we're going to go ahead and get the
value out of each input we just saw this
we just saw this uh in the in the last
example we get the value out of each
input
we store them into variables
right we store them into variables that
way they don't poof and disappear so we
can reuse them later on in our program
right
if we really want it to
right if we really wanted to we could do
this
let me let me comment this line out here
if we want to do we could do something
like really
really not good looking this is like
writing some bad bad code we could do
this we could go ahead and do yoink
put that there
and go ahead and do yoink
we go and grab this here
yoink
put that here
i'm gonna grab this right
and put this here
this does the same thing
it does the same thing
we're gonna go ahead
right we're gonna go ahead
we're gonna go ahead and we're going to
grab
the value out of the first input add a
space grab the value from the second
input add a space add a space grab the
value from the second input add a space
write the value from the last input
right
it works we're bad he's writing bad code
it's cool but it's not readable
it's not readable it's so much more
readable
when we do
when we go ahead on each line we grab
the value and we assign it to a variable
the variables just make our lives
so much more easy right we can go ahead
and just use the variables if we want
right
now this is the older way of doing it
where we would concatenate we would add
all of the strings together
all the inputs together with with spaces
in between
but we got something new with es6 or the
newest versions of javascript
where we got these template strings and
the template strings are a little scary
when you first see them um but basically
instead of doing a string
like normal you start your string with a
tick
and you end it with a tick
and then you can plug in variables with
all the white space that you care about
by using the bling and the curly braces
so the bling and curly braces are just a
way of saying hey
i'm plugging this variable in
and then we have a space that i'm
plugging this variable in then we have a
space i'm plugging this variable in and
then a space i'm plugging this variable
in and it's just a newer syntax that
stops us from doing all that nasty like
spaces and pluses and all that wild
stuff
you know yeah it's it's well supported
now
cool
all right
we did see last class the the
synthesizer stuff that's there if you
want to have some fun with it definitely
come back to it if you want to play
around with that cool let's keep it
moving folks
pseudo code what the heck is pseudo code
chat what is pseudo code
talking to ducks exactly
yeah it's just writing out your process
in plain language instead of writing
syntax we talked a lot about syntax
today we're seeing document query
selector ad event listener functions
curly braces parentheses all that is the
syntax that gets in the way of actually
programming or thinking through the
logic of what we want to have happen in
our programs right so pseudocode is the
plain
language right the plain language that
we see when it comes time to write code
oh sorry this is this is this is
something i have to bring up i forgot to
bring it up earlier today when we were
talking about the study communities and
now we're talking about language so it
came to my brain uh this is like a
really
i don't like to have to do this but we
kind of have to
and so as we add the
study communities of different regions
there is going to be the temptation to
speak in your native language on discord
and here on twitch uh please don't
please use english on our discord and in
twitch chat i know it sucks to say that
but we just don't have the moderation
ability to moderate every language
that's out there
right
and so
for easing my life and our moderators
lives please use english uh so that we
can actually moderate the community um
and not so all the folks that are like
joking and like and putting different
languages in right now it's gonna tie
you out all right uh so the idea here is
that we have to do it so that we can
actually keep the community safe and
make sure um
that we can moderate effectively yeah
all right
thank you diffiker
i talk philly exactly
yeah
thank you all right pseudocode plain
language that we're going to use
all right plain language that we're
going to use to
level out our code to talk through the
logic
right talk through the logic and not
have to get held up by
the syntax
cool all right let's take a look at the
temperature converter
i'm going to close this here
close this here
alrighty
cool
so temperature converter what do we have
to do to convert temperature
what do we have to do if we want to
convert
the temperature
what do we got to do
if we want to convert a temperature what
do we need to do
yeah
we need a temperature
right we need a temperature we need some
sort of conversion of that temperature
and we need the ability to show that
temperature
to our users so
what i would like for you to do
is i'm going to put four minutes on the
clock
i would like for you to write out your
pseudo code
and then attempt to code out this
solution
now this is something you've already
seen before
this is something that you can go ahead
and take pieces from the rest of our
examples that we've already done
all right so
give yourself some grace
write out your pseudocode if all you can
get to is your pseudocode that's great
write your pseudocode and then write
your actual code
we did this on tuesday
you all are just catching on i told you
we're redoing everything we are
literally redoing everything
cool so go ahead if you know how to do
it i need you to actually do this recall
and if you do know how to do it try and
do both ways like if you're like i'm
gonna absolutely smash this push
yourself when you know you know how to
rock something push yourself
right do it do it the other way do both
ways cool four minutes on the clock
all you can do is your studio code
that's okay do your pseudo code and then
try and code this out as quickly as you
can four minutes
go for it
you got this
did last class catch up this morning so
you gotta freshen your mind that's good
to hear
some of you are going to sit here and
not do this
you're going to get got i'm going to
catch up to you
no matter if you think this is a slam
dunk or really hard you need to push
yourself and do it
i've been building email templates all
day we set up a react to email template
creator using customer i o but still a
pain in the butt
go out and be well i hate building email
templates that's one of my worst things
to do
mr t you got to keep keep going for it
you got to keep pushing
you're in your car kick a
good on you
remy said i spent so much time doing
this this week i have the conversion
rate stuck in my head
two different ways of kind of doing the
same thing
um with
the newer version of javascript we got
the query selector which gives you more
flexibility
but some people see it as a sacrifice
and speed but we'll get there eventually
right now we're just playing with legos
we'll go deeper with everything later on
all right folks
minute 10 left
some folks coming in done that's cool
first time silver hey congrats
30 seconds
good morning happy tree
my computer first i had a pseudo code
out loud that's what i'm talking about
that's what i'm talking about
you ain't gonna get got i love it
i love that the hustle
all right folks come on back come on
back let's look at this together
chill the music here first tree
uh oh first juggling biohazards thank
you for the hydration cheers to you
everyone if you're able to please let's
go ahead and hydrate
nice
cool
all right let's write out our pseudo
code uh first our pseudo code here would
be all right
um
get value out of input
uh convert the value
and
then like show the value
value to
user
cool
and
maybe we only do this on click so
only on click
and so i'm going to start off with
trying to grab an event listener so i'm
going to go to the angry parent
simulator and look at that javascript
all right here's an event listener yoink
got my event listener
i'm going to set up the the the set of
instructions that are going to run
actually i'm not going to type it out
i'm just going to copy and paste it i
want to show you that you don't have to
even know what the legos are doing just
to grab the legos
cool
boom
let's uh
let's take the stuff out of here that we
don't need
let's bring in our pseudo code
you're like leon you're going through
this fast it's like yeah we've done this
one already
i'll go through a little faster
um
and hate how i know how to do this but
on a timer i freeze up that's a pretty
common response it's the reason why we
do so many time challenges because a lot
of your interviews are going to be timed
challenges and so we got to get
comfortable with it first right so
that's why we do a lot of them timed
just to kind of get through the
ickiness
all right so we're going to grab a value
of the input which is what we're doing
right here convert the value so i'm just
going to say like
um
temp
equals temp
plus five
right um but actually i don't know how
to do this yet let's take this one step
at a time all right cool
i got my event listener
and i think i have an idea of what i
want to have happen so i grab my event
listener
but right now it's tied to the button
that has the id of what
the button that has the idea of what
would call this to run
yeah the button has the idea of yell if
we look at our html is there a button at
all
no
there's no button there's no input
so let's make sure we grab our button in
our input first i'm just going to go to
the parent simulator and just grab all
three of these
copy
come back to our html the temperature
converter
paste it in
we only need one input so i'm going to
get rid of all the other ones and i
think we'll just leave everything else
the same yell and place to yell good
spot
um
let's
i'm going to keep everything the way it
is
and keep everything the way it is
and then we'll just make sure we pay
attention to it
here
all right so we're going to listen for a
click on
the thing that has the id of yell and if
we look
we now have the idea of yell so our
event listener should work like our
event listener should work how do i
right
how do i
how could i test to see if this is
working like how could i before i even
go any deeper into my code how could i
test to see that this is working
yeah i could console.log or i could
alert exactly so let's just put a
console log in here
hello twitch
cool
beautiful
all right so i just want to see if this
is working
right i'm going to go ahead i'm going to
open this in my browser
let me open up my inspector here
this is bigger so that you all can see
it
console
first name
bob
click on yell
all right we can see that the event
listener is working it didn't matter if
i even had anything in here like it
doesn't matter we're not there yet right
i'm just checking to make sure my event
listener is working
right it's working i put the uh i put
the console log in there i can see the
console log count going up i know that
it works
please get into the habit of doing this
i see a lot of people that when they
have these projects or these assignments
they code everything out from beginning
to end and then they test
what are we doing right now
what are we doing right now we said we
were doing something very very specific
right now
so we're doing something very specific
specific we're playing exactly we're
playing so play with your code
do one thing see if it works
try another thing see if that works
break figure it out right like we're
just playing with our code get into the
habit of playing testing trying to
understand don't try and do something
from beginning to end and not test
because if you had
so many lines of code and you get all
these errors you don't know where they
came from right so don't wait to the end
to start testing to see if stuff works
to see if things are breaking right you
want to make sure that you do your
pseudo code and then you go step by step
get into the habit of testing and then
breaking playing and it'll just save you
a lot of time in the end when you you
messed up one thing at the very
beginning and that's the thing that's
going to cause you the trouble in the
end
cool
all right
sbs vn thank you for
the hydration cheers to you everyone if
you're able to let's go and get some
hydration on here
told that would be a interview no no
exactly
cool
all right thank you for the hydration
cheer to you all right so we know that
our event listener is working we know
that our instructions are running
we have the hello twitch that's popping
up let's get the value out of the input
so our input has
the idea first name
right and if we look
we're grabbing the thing that has the
idea first name we're grabbing the value
out of it
can so dev hey thank you for the five
get the subs i appreciate you thank you
for being here
thank you
we we have the the query selector we're
grabbing the value out and we're storing
an f name
now
does does this variable have to be
called something else
can i just say f name
i don't know i find that funny
can it stay f name
yeah it can it could say f name it could
say whatever we want we can call this uh
zebra
zebra magic
there we go you can call it zebra magic
pencil
it doesn't matter what we call it some
people think that like your variable
names have to be
a specific thing they don't have to be
just you typically want to name stuff
appropriately right like if you're
following some clean code practices you
want your variables to be the thing that
they are right and so we could call it
zebra magic pencil but we want to make
sure that we call it
temp
or t or something along those lines so
we know we're talking about temperature
but the variable name doesn't actually
matter you can call it whatever the heck
you want
alksar hey thank you for the five good
that subs i appreciate you thank you so
much
and thank you everyone else for subbing
today and all the prime spending all of
uh jeff bezos's bucks i appreciate y'all
thank you
sorry thank you thank you for being here
all right
so we can call this whatever we want i'm
just going to call it pumpkin for now
just so folks understand maybe whatever
the heck you want pumpkin now the thing
we're going to get into is that we want
to convert this value we want to
reassign a new value and so if we want
to reassign a new value want to convert
it from one value to another what
problem we're going to run into
yeah right now it's const which means
that pumpkin should not be changed so
we're gonna make sure that we don't
start with cons we're gonna start with
let so that we can reassign it we can
change it
all right so we have let pumpkin equal
the value and now that we have the value
inside of pumpkin right like we're
grabbing the value out of the input
we're storing in pumpkin what do we have
to do for pumpkin to turn it from
celsius to fahrenheit
what do we got to do to pumpkin
yeah
times 9 divided by 5
plus
what is it
there we go cool so that'll do the
conversion for us
and now the last thing we have to do is
like put it to where the user can see it
let's go back to angry parent simulator
and see if we can find how to do that ah
here we go
document query selector place to yell in
our text let's copy it
let's plug it in here
and we're going to plug in pumpkin
cool
right
now none of this was new
right none of this was new things that
we did it was just all the stuff that we
took from other places and used here now
i'm copying and pasting for the sake of
time
but you shouldn't copy and paste this
you should type it out
you should get used to typing these
things out so it sticks in your brain
you get used to all the special
characters right in the beginning type
things out later on you can speed up
your process you can copy and paste in
the beginning get used to all these
different characters all these different
things right
uh teach you can it's it's pemdas or
beemdas if you're from like the uk uh so
the typical order of operations works
when you're doing math and stuff like
that
so
cool all right so let's let's just break
this down one more time before we move
on
we have our event listener
we're listening for a click
on something that has the id of yell
when we hear that click
we
run the set of instructions called run
and the first thing we do is we print to
the console hello twitch so this is
working we would see hello twitch in the
console
the next thing we do is we get the value
out of the input
and store it in our variable of pumpkin
right and then we have our conversion
math for reassigning pumpkin to some
other value
right and then we take that value of
pumpkin and we plug it back into the dom
so we can see it
right we plug it back in so we can see
so let's go ahead and save it it's saved
let's go ahead and refresh and see if
it's working
it's going to put in uh
zero
great we got 32 and we also got the
console log so we can see it's working
too
and then let's go ahead and do 100 we
should get
212.
beautiful it's working
actually i guess this is second trophy
because we did it on tuesday
alrighty cool
next we're gonna move on to our lovely
bachelor code and then we're gonna wrap
up with covering functions in depth we
got some cool practice problems just
what functions so let's go ahead and
take our break
five minutes on the clock if you're able
please get up move around hydrate let
your eyes focus on something that is not
your screen
and we'll be back
talon do exclamation point semicolon you
can read more
all right let's go and take a break
i'm gonna run ads again uh during the
break just so we don't see them during
class for folks
five minutes on the clock
and i will see you all in five
group
collective nectar if we get the once we
get the csgo one up um we're gonna do
like tf2 and source and like bunch of
other stuff that's smaller
number i'll get you when uh we come back
all right folks come on back come on
back hope you had a good break
all right let's chill the music
alrighty
alrighty welcome back everybody we got
we're gonna go through the bachelor code
and then we are going to look at
functions and then we'll talk about the
homework and we'll wrap up class cool
all right so in in chat what is the best
tv show of all time
mods go ahead and prime the
prime the clicks here please
best television of all show of all time
please and chat
beautiful thank you i'm glad we all
agree
the bachelor wonderful
all right so let's go and take a look at
all of our examples that are bachelor
themed
already one of our
one of the folks in the current cohort
has a bachelor's podcast i thought that
was pretty dope
ping me again i want to retweet it i
want to retweet the podcast
all right let's take a look at the
bachelor code
there we go all right so
if we open up the index.html
we're going to see that there are three
lovely contestants claire
nikki and the other wonderful charlene
when he clicked the final rose i want
unfortunately
charlene to go away
and claire to go away
only leaving nicki who did win the final
rose of juan pablo season of the
bachelor so let's go ahead
we've already done this and it's fill in
the blank so i'm going to put
two minutes on the clock here and then
we're going to go over it together
two minutes on the clock
have at it
i think it's wild that we watch dating
for fun yeah
it's kind of wild
claire and charlene should disappear
those are those are the two that should
disappear claire and charlene
love his blind has been pretty good
it's had hands down one of the best
reality television show moments of all
time
um
like probably has to be top three best
moments to ever happen in reality
television
um it happens with uh
sean and natalie
i'm not gonna say more because i don't
want to spoil or anything but hands down
one of the best moments
in uh
in trash television history
is there a murder no
all right folks 30 seconds left
some folks think it's like a like an act
like that like i like like there's no
way i'm into these shows at the level
that i'm into like where i'm like
writing blogs reading blogs fan fiction
like no i'm really about this life
i bring up i bring the heat too like
people are throwing out random trash
television shows i'm like this moment
and this episode this season like if
this is me
okay
all right folks come on back come back
let's look at this one together
alrighty so if we notice
the h1 has the idea final rows
and then there are three images that we
want to hide
or sorry two engines when i hide claire
and charlene so
we look we have our event listener we
can see that the name of the function or
the sets of instructions is hide this is
an easy replace
it's going to plop and hide nothing's
really changed from the examples that
we've seen before
and then down here we know that we have
to hide
uh both
claire and then charlene so let's go
ahead and put in claire
and then unfortunately
charlene beautiful and so what's going
to happen here is we have our normal
event listener our normal smurf and
here's the click on the h1 that has the
idea final rows it runs a set of
instructions hide we find the element
that has the id of claire
and we change it css to display none
let's let's let's um let's actually look
at this though i want to actually see
this in the dom
excuse me
all right let's inspect
let's look at the body
the sections all right so here's claire
nicki and charlene watch what happens
when i click on final rows
nothing
how do i how did i know nothing was
going to happen
right now i know it's going to click on
final rows and i knew nothing was going
to happen how did i know
i did save i did refresh
did not refresh
but you could see that there was an
error right there was an error there
until i refreshed so i knew this wasn't
going to work because i saw the error
and then i refreshed and the new code
got rendered to the dom and now there's
no more error
right and now it should work let's see
there we go click on final rows
uh claire goes away charlene goes away
but let's actually look and see what
happens let me refresh here real quick
look at the sections
all right claire and nikki are here and
click on final rows three two one
what what happened look at the dom what
happened in the dom what did we do
what did we do in the actual dom
yeah we put we put like in-line style
we literally put in-line style that has
at least a thousand points of
specificity and so that inline style is
there because of the javascript like we
literally said hey
add display none inline add display in
line and that's why they disappear
because we literally change the inline
css but as soon as we refresh
boom that all goes away that inline
stuff that we put in there with
javascript goes away remember
javascript can mess
with the dom it can go in it can put in
inline style it can do all that stuff to
mess with the dom but as soon as we
refresh it goes away
yeah
cool so let's look at that one more time
you can see here nothing there we click
on final rows boom we use javascript to
put that inline style and they both
disappear
cool
all right let's keep pushing
look at number two
all right this one was a little a little
bit more difficult
we're going to put
put three minutes on the clock and we're
going to go over it together
three minutes on a clock we'll go over
this one together
kid neptune it doesn't matter because
we're not messing with html or css we're
messing with the dom that has already
rendered the html and css so it doesn't
we don't have to like we don't have to
ever think about editing our css file
writing the html file because that's not
what we're messing with with javascript
we're messing with the dom with
javascript we're not actually ever
touching those files
yeah
cool
all right three minutes on the clock
let's see you get at this one
and we'll go over it together
id's are unique fox
makes it easier to target that thing and
only that thing
dragging it could
depends
uh the goal in this one
is to be able sorry i forgot i didn't i
didn't actually i'm gonna pause the
timer for a second
i forgot for the new one
to explain what we have to do
this one you want to click on andy or
claire or charlene and see their image
but the other images should disappear if
they're already visible so click see the
image click it should go away uh if you
click on claire and andy or charlie was
showing those would disappear
fill in the blanks
how about it
bb will do the hydration when folks come
back
we also do nums as well we'll do both
um civil because the client will be able
to do the manipulation as well so
it's not that you're never really using
javascript to change html and css
forever right because then you would
just put those changes in html or css js
is only there for when the user
manipulates stuff or does something
big shiny there is a way to do that yes
jm yep that's pretty typical
we don't we don't typically do stuff
outside because
um
you run into scoping issues
yeah yep that would be true
minute left folks
dang stuff stuck from last time nice
yeah that's the reason why we're doing
it
yeah
why we're doing it a lot of guns coming
in i like to see it
we're gonna talk about freelancing on
tuesday
all right manly jones we're gonna go
over in 20 seconds anyway
mitch if you wanted to hit enter on an
event listener it's the event to submit
so on submit would enable you to hit
enter and submit the form
all right folks come on back come on
back
let's look at this one together
oh the music
all right we had two hydrates that we
missed so everyone if you're able please
let's get our
two rounds of hydration in
uh num k1 thank you for the hydration
and
db556b thank you for the hydration
cheers to both of y'all let's hydrate
i'm gonna take two sips one for each
cool
let's take a look at this
we had
document query selector andy and we
stored that in a variable
why the heck did i store
the dom element
in a variable why did i do this line
here why did i do this
yeah i'm going to use it later on so it
gives me a little bit more drier code it
gives me a little bit more reusability
and you can see it in action down here
right here i'm just saying andy
but i could if i wanted to do the whole
thing i could take this
i could come down here
and
i could do the whole document query
selector andy i could do that each and
every single time it's way more typing
it doesn't look as clean so i just kind
of declared my three variables here and
assign them the value and the cool thing
here is that you can assign them the
value of elements from the dom right so
if we look
the thing that has the id of andy
right i think that has the idea that
andy is the image of andy
right so it just makes it easy for me to
talk about that image whenever i want to
it was me to reuse it as much as i want
to right all right so
we have our event listeners here we have
a function called andy next clarinex and
charlene next the first thing we have to
do is set up our event listeners to be
correct so
uh andy next beautiful
then we have
claire next
cool
and then we have
charlene
x
cool
so you can see the function name of andy
next clarinex
and charlene next could have called
these er could have cut these whatever i
wanted
right but that's the name i chose for
those sets of instructions that's why
they had to go into
my event listener
cool
next let's take a look
we have this first set of instructions
andy neck so
if we click on
the text that has the id of andy next
let's take a look
all right here we go this h2 has the id
of andy next it's the piece of text that
says andy
if i click on that i run the set of
instructions called andy next so here's
a set of instructions called andy next
and we do a couple different things here
we look at claire remember clear
is the variable from line two
right it's the variable from line two
we're looking for something that has the
id of claire so when i see claire here
it means look for the thing that has the
id of claire if i look
all right where's the thing that has the
idea of clear it's the image great all
right so i know
right i know i'm talking about the image
that has the id of claire let's go back
and take a look all right talk about the
image that has the idea claire next i
have class list
what does classlist give me chat
what does classlist give me
what does classless give me
yeah somebody knows we're talking about
nodeless yeah
yeah it gives you uh for now we'll say a
list but eventually we'll call it
something slightly different a list of
all the classes right it just says all
right look at all the classes
on claire
right look at all the classes on claire
that's all it does look at all the
classes on claire and then i want you to
add a class to claire
if i'm trying to select andy next
what class do i want to add to claire's
classes if we look
here we have
the image with the id of claire i want
to add classes to it
what classes do i want to add if i'm
trying to pick andy next yeah i'm going
to add the hidden class
now the odd thing is that already right
now
right
right now
claire already has the class hidden
right so it doesn't it doesn't really
it's never going to do anything right
now
but in the future claire might not have
the class hidden and we have to think
about that that's where pseudo code
would come in really handy with this
right
cool
same thing with charlene it's also going
to be hidden
and then the same thing with andy it'll
also be hidden
but this time instead of adding hidden
so the only thing that these two lines
will do is remove claire
and remove charlene right that's the
only thing these two lines will do is
they will remove claire they will remove
charlene's image that's all they can do
but when you toggle hidden
toggles like a light switch
right
right it's like a light switch
if it has hidden it's going to remove it
if it doesn't have hidden it's going to
add it
right
it doesn't matter right
if it has it it'll remove it if it
doesn't have it adds like a light switch
if the light's on you hit the switch it
goes off if the lights off you switch it
goes on
right
now we don't have to use dots here
because we're already talking about
classes
we're not trying to select anything
we're not using clear query selector
right we're not trying to select
anything we already know that we're
dealing with classes
so we don't need the dot we already told
our code that it's a class already
right you don't have to
right so no dot here because you're
already using the class very told it's a
class and you're not actually selecting
anything like query selector
cool let's save this
let's go back let's refresh
uh we know this won't work
let's let's open up our inspector and
see
i've refreshed
and how do i know this won't work
i can already see that there's an error
here you see this like red line if i go
to my console i can see that there's an
error
it's telling me that there's an error on
line 16 so i know there's an error i
know i have to come back and fix my code
before this would run if i was doing
this for real i would comment out these
two lines well these two blocks of code
these two functions right i would i
would comment them out and then go test
right we already know that's the problem
actually let's do it anyway
boom let's save it let's go back let's
refresh
all right no more error we click on andy
beautiful andy's working on and off no
problem
all right
go back let's uncomment these and fix
them up
we had a hydration jag tony hey thank
you for the hydration cheers to you
everyone if you're able to please
hydrate with
us all right finish this up real quick
uh we know if we're we're trying to
select claire next we're gonna hide
andy
and we're gonna hide uh charlene
all right and then uh claire will be the
one that'll be toggled
and all three of these will be hidden
and i know the ones down here will also
be hidden so
let's just delete them all at the same
time
and oh spelled wrong head in at the same
remember you can you can click if you
hold down command
and click you'll get your cursor at each
place that you click
right um i think on windows it's control
each place you click you'll get it yeah
just speeds up a little bit and then
down here
down here i can do a slightly different
trick which is command option and then
down arrow and so i don't have to
actually use my mouse i'm just using the
keyboard to do it
cool
all right now i'm going to go ahead and
say
for charlene next we know we're going to
hide claire and we know we're going to
hide andy and then charlene will be the
one that is toggled
all right let's make sure it all works
let's refresh
andy if i click on charlene what should
happen to andy if i click on charlene
what should happen andy
click on charlene what should happen to
andy
poof gone charlene shows up
right click on claire unfortunately
charlene goes away claire shows up
click on the clear goes away right
remember you can you can still toggle
on and off and if we look at the
elements right we go to the body
we look at the images we can see that
they all have the hidden class right now
remember in our css
right in our css
there's this hidden class that has
display none right that's what we're
adding we're adding and removing that
class and that's what making it making
it go away and come back all right if we
go back and look
if we click on charlene
and we pay attention over here
we click we'll see that toggle do its
work we toggle the hidden class goes
away we click again
that class of hitting comes back
right
if
we go ahead and look at claire
right let's click on charlene first
right i like this one too because
charlie no longer has the hidden class
but if i click on claire ready three two
one
the hitting goes away from claire and it
came back to charlene
right that's part of the toggling right
if we look
if we looked at claire's code
when claire next was fired andy would
get hidden charlene would get hit in we
just saw that and claire would toggle
right that's what we said we said give
hidden to both of these folks and then
toggle claire so if we go back and look
and we're looking at um claire right now
and charlene well notice that charlene
has hidden claire doesn't that's why we
can see claire but if i click on
charlene we know that claire is going to
get hidden back
and he's going to get hidden even though
it doesn't matter and then charlene
should toggle boom and we saw that
claire gets hit in back
charlene removes the hidden right
because of the toggle
beautiful
alrighty
the class of hidden is already on each
one why is it ad because we're going to
do it every time the the thing here is
we're still adding it it just doesn't
matter if it's already there
right you're still doing the same logic
each time because we won't know
javascript doesn't know where it's at
right javascript doesn't know where it's
at a computer only does what
a computer only does what we tell it to
do javascript's not sitting there
thinking hmm does claire already have
hidden does charlene already have hidden
no we don't want to have to introduce
all that logic to have to guess or have
state or know where we're at it doesn't
matter we just want to hide them if
we're clicking on something else right
so if we know we're going to hide them
regardless of where we're at we just
always tell it to hide because the
computer will do what we tell it to do
we don't have to manage state or figure
out where we're at or what's happening
right we're just going to tell it to do
it every single time because it kind of
just doesn't matter
cool last one then we're going to look
at functions i'm really excited to jump
into functions let's look at this last
one and then we're going to look at
functions
all right number three
should we close all this stuff here
alrighty
this one was a tricky one
i'm not gonna i'm not gonna put a timer
up i just want to walk through it
together
uh and we'll go over this one together
because i know this one was kind of
tricky actually let me quick quick
minute for folks that did their their
folks that did what i asked them to do
of deleting retyping deleting retyping
deleting retyping here's your victory
lap a minute on the clock
thank you for doing what i asked you to
do
go for it
figure it out go for it
you already know you sure know what to
do
you already know what to do on this one
that's why we're saying a minute and
then i'm going to talk through actually
how to do it this is this is the victory
lap for folks that did the homework
don't know what to do that's all right
we're going to go over it in 40 seconds
sometimes stream beats comes with some
angers i like it
if you're using query selector you
always use the quotes
nothing to guess about it just use the
quotes
cool all right folks come on back on
this one
that was quick
there's the victory lap alright let's
show the music here
all right
i actually don't know if we did jag
tony's um hydration just in case i
missed it
cheers to you if you're able to hydrate
let's hydrate
cool
i love it there you go
auggie
all right
let's take a look at this one let's open
it in the browser first
okay
what we have here
is
two
contestants who you're able to click on
excuse me
you can click on claire you can click on
nikki
if you click on claire i want an alert
to pop up that says wrong
and if you click on nikki i want it to
show her lovely photo
right so click on claire it should show
wrong with an alert and click on nikki
to show their lovely photo let's go
ahead and figure out who won the final
rows here if we look
the things we're clicking on they both
have the class of contestant
but only one of them has the class of
rows so we can actually use this to
determine which one we clicked on
because if we clicked on something that
has the class of rows we know we've
clicked on nikki if we clicked on claire
and we checked for rows they wouldn't
have that class let's go and take a look
um we're doing something slightly
different here we're using something
called query selector all this enables
us to select multiple elements at the
same time so i'm going to use the class
of contestant
right the class of contestant if we look
both both claire and nikki both have the
class of contestant
right so i'm able to use that class and
so i'm going to say grab all the
elements that have
the class of contestant
right
and i'm storing it in the variable
called contestants
now
this line here is a very tricky line
it's just a bit of code
that enables us to put an event listener
on every single
contestant that is in this variable
all right
for those that did the read ahead a
little bit what is for each it's a what
something we're gonna learn about next
week four each is a what
it's a loop right it's a method that
gives us a loop
right it's a loop and so what we're
going to do is we're going to loop
through each contestant
all right we're going to loop through
each contestant
all right
and we are going to
add an event listener to it
so in this case we have our event
listener our event down here our set of
functions down here called check for
rows our event listener is going to add
a click
to every contestant and each one of
those clicks should trigger
the check
for
rows
function down here
it should trigger the check for rows
function
cool
all right so where do you get all these
smurfs all right so if we look at our
check for rows
the cool thing we're doing here is we're
passing something into this function
we're about to see arguments and
parameters and some really cool stuff
about how functions work in a few
seconds
and so what we're saying here is hey
we're passing the click into this
function
look at what the target of that click
was like what did the user actually
click on
if the thing the user clicked on
has a class that contains what
right we know that we're looking for the
class of rows
right so
if
the thing we clicked on
has the class of rows
we know that we've clicked on nikki
right because if we look
only nikki had the class of rose
all right only nikki had the class of
rose so
if we look at the thing that we clicked
on and it had the class of rows we can
go ahead and toggle
the hidden class on nikki and then if
the thing we clicked on didn't have the
class of rows we know that we clicked on
clear
right the only other option here is if
both of these right if both of these now
have the same event listener
right if both of these now have the same
event listener
right
there's only two options either the
thing we clicked on has rose and it's
nikki or it didn't have rose and we
alert wrong
come on now we talked about that dot a
bunch of times tonight right talked
about this being a way to
select elements from the dom right we're
actually trying to find something in the
dom that's a class
here we've already said that this is a
class right by using classlist we said
this is this is already a class so we
don't need the dot we don't need the dot
there we already said it's a class and
we're not actually selecting anything
from the dom
cool
all right let's make sure this works
then we'll move on
refresh i'm going to click on claire
claire321
wrong so we know it works and then if we
click on nikki it should show their
lovely image
oh there you go lovely image
alrighty
all right so that was our lovely
bachelor code let's move on to our new
topic this evening which are
functions we're going to do functions
about 20 minutes or so and then we'll
wrap up class with a lovely raid all
right chat what are what are functions
yeah
exactly functions are just sets of
instructions just instructions
right functions are simple sets of
instructions people often refer to as
functions as like the building blocks of
a program i've been using the term legos
and and and
blocks is kind of the extension of that
right
a function is the the reusable blocks in
our program that we can reuse over and
over again sets of instructions that we
can reuse over and over
right so
for me
like in my brain
i have a set of instructions
for how to clap
right like
clap
right there's a set of instructions in
my brain that says like take right hand
take left hand bring them together at
speed and you'll make a clap
right and so the cool thing is i can
call that function over and over and
over again i can clap clap clap clap
clap clap clap clap clap right i can do
it over and over and over again
and this is going to bring
right this is going to bring
a lot of reusability and dryness to our
code
all right let's let's actually take a
look at something already let's go back
to some of the the um
the code that we've already seen
uh let's take a look at
take a look at the second one here
let's take a look at andy next right
let's take a look at this
how many how many steps are there in
this in this set of instructions
how many steps are there in this set of
instructions
yeah there are three things that are in
the set of instructions
so what if i wanted to do all three of
those things
three times
what if i want to do all three of those
things three times
without functions here's what it would
look like
that'll function if i want to do all
three of these things three times this
is what it would look like
boom boom boom
right that's me doing those set of
instructions
three times that starts to get messy
it starts to get
out of hand
right what we could do however
is instead of having to retype all those
instructions line by line
we could do andy next
and then just run that
three times
right so we went from
nine lines of code
to three lines of code
and that's the beauty of what functions
bring to the game
is that instead of having to
repeat ourselves over and over again and
our code base is getting exponentially
large
we put all the instructions that we want
to have happen
in one function
and then we can repeat that function
as many times as we want
right there are so many things that you
do every day that are functions in your
brain
how to make coffee
how to turn on your computer there are
these things that we do all the time
over and over again and when we start
writing code we don't want to have to
right we don't want to have to
write out everything from scratch each
time by throwing our code into functions
we get reusability the ability to write
one line and get all those instructions
right
cool
let's take a look at that
here is how we break down a function
function has really two key steps to it
right really two key steps
we have
the declaration
and we have the call
now we've heard of declaration before
what what is declaration where have we
heard declaration before
where if we heard declaration before
we did hear it in css but let's let's
stick to javascript
where have we heard declaration before
yeah
we declare
our variables and what do i mean by
declaring my variables what does that
actually mean
what is declaring a variable actually
mean
yeah
we're putting it into memory right we
have memory
and in memory
we've seen declaring variables like let
dog age right we've seen that before
where we'd create a space in memory
called dog age
right well functions are the exact
same thing
here is a function declaration right
that has a name
and so what we're going to do is we're
going to create a space in memory
called
name
because the whole point
of a function
is to be able to do a set of
instructions
over
and over and over again so we actually
need to store those instructions
in memory
right so that's why we call this a
function
declaration right we're going to take
these sets of instructions
and put them
into memory
so that way in the future if we ever
want to clap we can just say clap right
if in the future we want to be able to
make peanut butter and jelly we can say
make peanut butter and jelly we have all
these sets of instructions that we can
store into memory and then reuse
whenever we want
and so the act of using a function
or telling it to to come from memory
right to pull it out of memory and
actually do it to follow those sets of
instructions
we have to call it
right a function won't run unless it is
called
right so we we declare our functions
which puts them into memory so we can
use them whenever we want
but they won't run until they are called
all right we got a hydration
we got a couple here we got crisis and
we got
dev instinct thank you so much for the
hydration cheers to both of you
you're able to let's
hydrate and two
alrighty so this
idea
of putting a set of instructions into
memory and then running them
right is how we're going to do a lot of
stuff in javascript
cool
here's an example of a function
here's an example of a very simple
function
we have now in
memory a set of instructions
called yell
and whenever i want to yell
i can call
that function
and i can call it over and over and over
again the beauty is i can put whatever i
want inside this function and then reuse
it over and over again now
when you are creating functions
there are two very important things to
keep in mind
remember
this is the thing that's going into
memory the set of instructions
right
and this is the call telling those set
of instructions to run
now there are two pieces of information
here that we haven't talked about yet
we have arguments
and we have
parameters
whenever you call a function
you can pass
stuff in
you can pass stuff in
to the function
so i like to think of i have a very
healthy relationship with my mother but
i like to think of it this way whenever
i call my mom
it's to argue
right so whenever i'm calling my
function
i pass in
arguments right so whenever you're
calling whenever you're trying to get
that that that function to run
you're passing in an argument and so
when i call my mom to argue i pick a
topic to argue about
right
we're gonna argue about
ducks
right or the next time i call them we're
going to argue about pokemon or next
time i call we're going to argue about
succulents right we have the ability to
call that argument you have the ability
to make these calls to pass in different
arguments
each time
right
and so when you
call a function
you can pass in an
argument and that argument gets passed
into the function
and it really falls into a bucket
that we call a parameter
give me a second here i know these if
you haven't if you haven't done the
reading yet these are a little
complicated understand give me a second
here
we call the function we pass in an
argument
right
and that argument falls into a bucket
that is our parameter
parameters are like variables that only
exist
inside this function
right so let's let's see what i'm
talking about it's kind of hard to see
without looking at it so here
this is a what chat what is this here
what did i just circle what is that
it's not just a function it's a function
what yeah
it's a function declaration we now have
in memory
we now have in memory a function called
yell
right we now have in memory a function
called yell
and then down here what's this chat
what's that
it's a call exactly
and i call my mom to what
i call my mom to what
argue so what the heck is
string hello
string hello is a what
yeah it's our argument it's the thing
that we're going to argue about right
and so that string hello falls into the
what what does this string hello fall
into
we see word here what the heck is word
word is a what
word is a parameter right now
wherever i see word inside of this
function
it is actually what in this instance
word is what
wherever i see word inside this function
right now word is actually what
yeah it's actually string
hello
right because here
is the function call
i've passed in the argument of hello
that argument falls into the bucket
that is word
wherever i see word inside this function
it's now actually string
below
and the reason why this is
so helpful
is because now i can reuse this function
over and over and over again and each
time i call my mother to argue
we can argue about different things we
can yell about different stuff i can
yell hello
but i can also yell
goodbye
i can also yell
i don't know
something else i could yell i don't yell
my mom i could yell dominoes
right we could pass in different stuff
to yell
i could pass in i love you right i could
yell i love you my mom right so the cool
thing is we wrote a function once but we
can reuse it over and over and over and
over again by passing in different
arguments
right
by passing different arguments so this
gives us the ability to do sets of
instructions
over and over and over again passing in
slightly different changes
right
and it adds a whole new world of
flexibility to your code let's take a
look at this let's do one together
and when it and when they're simple it
it's kind of like hey well why did you
have to do that it's so simple
we're doing a one-line function here but
eventually our functions will get longer
right they'll do more
all right so
always put your parameter in here so i'm
going to yell
um
thing
thing five it just doesn't matter what
we call it right and then i'm gonna
alert thing five
there we go
cool so now we have a function called
yell
we have a parameter called thing five
all right
let's go ahead and call yell
let's yell
hello
great you saw we get an alert that says
let's go ahead and
call yell again
i love you
boom now we get an alert that says i
love you
right let's do another one let's yo
we need
more
dominoes right now we're now we're
alerting we need
more domino so we wrote the function
once
right we wrote the function once but we
can call it as many times as we want
reusing those instructions over and over
again
thing five is just the made up parameter
name i can call my parameter whatever
the heck i want i called it thing five
because that's the first thing i thought
of right it just doesn't matter you can
call it whatever the heck you want so
here we have a function call
right here we have a function we need to
click out here we have a function call
with the
argument of hello
that argument falls into the parameter
of thing five
wherever i see thing five
inside of this function
it's now hello then i call it again
now my argument is i love you
right
right now now it's called i love you and
so now it falls into the parameter thing
five and wherever i see thing five i'm
actually just saying i love you and i do
it again i call it again now my argument
is we need more dominoes that falls into
thing five wherever i see thing five
it's actually we need more dominoes
right now the cool thing is
you can actually have like as many
parameters as you want let's go and do
function
yell
something
and i'm gonna pass in
um
i don't know
bob1 and bob two just doesn't matter
what we call them right
bob one bob two
and i am going to alert
and this time i'm gonna pass in a
template literal or template string that
we've talked about before
so let's go ahead and say
i
and then we'll pass in
uh bob one
after
i
and then we'll pass in bob two
cool
we'll do our closing tick and there we
go so now i can alert i bob1 after i bob
two
all right let's go ahead and make sure
this is actually declared and put into
memory there we go i can do yell
something
and now i can pass in two arguments
i
eat
and
swim
there we go
ready let's hit this enter
and we can see in the alert i know it's
tiny but it says i eat after i swim
right let's call it
again i
sleep
and
there we go so i passed in sleep and go
to class now we can see i sleep after i
go to class
all right
we gotta hydrate in here
sky lily pie says hi thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
all right let's take a look at this
all right
eat and swim are both what chat eat and
swim are both what
eat and swim are both what
yeah they're both arguments
alright so
this first argument of eat
falls into the parameter of bob one
wherever i see bob one
now it is the same thing as if i had
said
eat
then
our second argument of swim
falls into the parameter of bob two
wherever i see bob two it's the same
thing as having said
swim
that's why we saw i eat after i swim
inside of our alert cool let's look at
our next two arguments here we called
the function again
right we called the function in again
and we passed in the first argument of
sleep
leap falls into
bob one wherever i see bob one it's
actually now sleep
and then i pass in my second argument of
go to class
that falls into bob two
wherever i see bob two it's actually the
same as saying go
to
class and so we'll see but when we call
it this time we see an alert that says i
sleep after i go to class
cool
so chat one more time
what is this here what is that
the function what
the function declaration call okay cool
function declaration what are these
these are both what function what
their function calls nice
um both of these are all four of these
are what
arguments nice
and both of these are what
parameters nice
alrighty folks uh let's go ahead we're
gonna do
[Music]
one
assignment together so we're gonna go a
little over tonight we're gonna do one
assignment together and then another one
will be due for homework so
let's go and take a look
we have in our materials for tonight
simple functions
all right so we have three things to do
here
in the javascript that says create a
function that adds two numbers and
alerts the sum
create a function that multiplies three
numbers and console logs the product
right and then create a function divides
two numbers and returns the uh what is
that called the quotient cool
all right so we're gonna put five
minutes on the clock
actually we're gonna do four minutes
we'll do five minutes on the clock
cool
five minutes on the clock
take your five minutes we're gonna go
over it and then we'll end class
the quotient yeah
i always forget the the result of
division
get out here with the duns
five minutes
push yourself if you're already done
push yourself make it do wilder and
wilder stuff
hey nick how you doing
everyone's pumped for elden ring
[Music]
all right folks you got this
i know if it's your first time playing
with functions could be hard it's all
right
you don't get it we're gonna go over it
together then we'll end with a nice raid
get those channel points
got this dig deep
glad i did the reading yes it pays to do
the reading folks
i bought some more oh snap it works hey
i'm glad some of it's working cool
i wrote the code in my head yes you
start your pseudo code right
thank you card has been doing you a
solid that's awesome
glad they're coming in useful
all right
about half the times through we're gonna
take another two minutes 30 seconds
we're gonna go over them together and
then we're gonna do a cool raid
that's actually a pretty common uh
complaint like not knowing where to
start the only way that you get more
comfortable of knowing how to start is
by doing it repetitious like do it in
repetition right doing it over and over
again until you start to see and
recognize the patterns and you don't
need to
actually look like the biggest thing i
keep saying it i don't know how to say
it any louder any anymore
delete it do it again and do it again
until you don't actually have to look at
the other code you can just type it out
it doesn't matter if you don't
understand a single bit of what's
happening
just by doing it and so you don't need
to look at the example means that you
have those patterns in your brain so
when things actually start to click you
remember all the patterns and it comes
together like a tidal wave
so even if you have no idea what tech
you're doing get that repetition in
mcafee said yes the delete repeat has
helped me a lot it does trust me it just
works i don't know why it just works we
do know why it works right the the space
repetition is like it's forced right
nice
down for the first time hey i love to
hear it
alrighty folks
got about a minute left
got some folks getting their first dones
tonight i love it
had to peek back into the functions
reading good yeah make sure you use your
resources i love that
oh some folks coming in done at the the
buzzer here i love it
i didn't test it done can i play alden
ring now
let's go over it
alrighty
i appreciate that comment about the boot
camp
all right folks let's take a look at
this together
go over it together
we'll do our raid
all right let's chill the music here
alrighty
create a function
that adds two numbers and alerts the sum
all right let's create a function we got
to get used to our function syntax right
function keyword
and the name of the function
so if we have a function that adds two
numbers what do you think we should name
our function here
some or i like to be a little bit more
descriptive
add
two
nubs
add two nums
right or even better add two numbers
right i like to be descriptive in my in
my function names eventually we'll get
to a concept called clean code and this
is one of them
all right function add two numbers and
if i'm gonna be adding two numbers
together what do i need two i need two
what
i need two what
two parameters nice i'm gonna call it
uh
num1
and num2
beautiful num1 num2
and
it wants to alert the sum so let's go
and do an alert
and if we want to alert the sum what do
we got to do to our parameters
there's a couple ways we can do this
right we could just do num1
plus
num2 and that that should work right
like we're going to
add the two parameters together and
alert them so let's try it
let's go ahead and call our function
add two nums
and let's pass in two numbers uh two and
three
we have two and three here if this works
this should call
our function called add two numbers
right
and alert
the sum let's try it
open this in the browser
and boom we see that alert of
five
right see the alert of five or straight
all right we see the alert of five nice
um so it worked there's also some other
ways to do this right
like
there are some other ways to do this
right
we could do something like a variable
like let
sum equal
want num1 plus num2
right we could do that here maybe make a
little bit more readable and then alert
the sum
or like this would also work like both
of these are
ways of doing it you could do it
directly in the alert
or you could set up a variable that does
it right
so it's kind of up to you i think this
might be a little bit more readable
um we're not going to ever reassign it
so maybe we can just call it const right
so it's up to you like you could do it
directly in the alert or you could do a
variable i like this a little bit more
it's a little bit more readable
all right a little bit more readable
let's do the next one here
create a function that multiplies three
numbers and console logs the product so
let's go ahead and create a function
function keyword uh what's the name what
should we call this one
if we're multiplying three numbers
right
yeah multiply
multiplies
three
numbers that that sounds pretty good to
me
and then the notice what i do i always
like to like make sure my curly braces
close
and then i come back in and do my
parameters i feel like folks that stop
and do the parameters they often forget
their curly braces so you'll notice me
do this all the time i do my curly
braces i break them and then i go back
to do my parameters just in the
beginning so that you don't forget to
close your curly braces which can be a
problem for a lot of folks so
um if i'm multiplying three numbers i
need three what
i need three what
three parameters all right
zebra one
zebra
two
three
does the parameter names matter no we
don't have to call them num or anything
like that normally if we know they're
going to be numbers we'd call them num
or numbers right
but it doesn't matter we can call our
parameters where the heck we want
cool
and then console logs the product so
let's go ahead and create a product
const
product
equals
zebra one
times
zebra two
zebra
three that's the product right
result of multiplication
and then it wants it in a console log
so we'll console.log
product cool now we could have just put
all three like these three
directly in the console logged and that
would have worked as well
right
right that would have worked right same
thing
would have worked
all three
products right same thing just a
different way of doing it
and then
right now
if i save this right if i save this
and i go to my browser i want to see the
console log i go and i open up my
console log
i refresh
i get an error
num is not defined
where am i getting num is not defined
i don't have an error
ah
see num was not a parameter i forgot the
two
all right let's save it let's go back
i get the five from the original alert
from the original problem but i'm not
seeing any multiplication
why am i not seeing the result of any
multiplication in my console
let's look
how am i not seeing the result of any
multiplication in my console
that prime i think that was you
i hope you're doing well
i didn't call it
let's call it
cool
let's pass in
let's let's uh let's let's go ahead and
pass in our three numbers here
let's go ahead and pass in
two three and four
all right
two three and four let's save it let's
go back
we have our alert from the original
function call and then we have 24.
did it work
let's go back and take a look
2 times 3 is 6 6 times 4 is 24 so it
worked we have our call
and our function declaration we're in a
good spot
all right last one and then we'll we'll
end and do a raid
alrighty create a function that divides
two numbers and returns the
quotient alrighty
create a function
what should we call this one
should we call this one yeah
divides two
numbers let's go ahead and create our
parameters i'm going to call n1 and n2
for num1 num2 cool
and returns what the heck is returning
what the heck is returning
i'll show you here's return
and let's just do it straight in line
here
n1 divided by n2
well
returning spits out
the answer to wherever the function is
called
right it just spits it out to wherever
the function is called it doesn't
actually print it it just spits it out
to wherever it's called so
let's come down
here two numbers
and let's pass in two numbers let's pass
in 12 and six
would expect two let's save it
let's go back and refresh
all right we get our original alert we
get our 24 from the second thing
but then we never actually see anything
we don't see two anywhere
why the heck don't we see two anywhere
i don't see two anywhere
i called it
it ran
yeah returning doesn't actually print it
so what happens when you return
something let me show you so we passed
in 12
12 goes into n once where we see n1 it's
right
then 6 gets passed into n2 where we see
n2 at 6. so we do 12 divided by 6 which
is 2
and then we return 2
we return to to where it was called
so it gets called here
and it just poof evaporates in the thin
air
i didn't save it i didn't put it in a
variable and i didn't console log it or
return it it just evaporated into thin
air so let's go ahead and
wrap this call
in a console log
right let's wrap it in a console log
let's see what happens
let's save it let's go back let's
refresh
boom the original alert
the first console log and then our
console log of two
right return spits out the value to
where it was called now it doesn't make
a whole lot of sense right now why the
heck would you return stuff we're gonna
see that in our class next thursday
we're gonna eventually start chaining
functions we're gonna have one function
that'll do the math then one function
that'll like turn it into like a like a
number sign add like a number sign to it
and we can have all these different
functions that work with each other that
spit out stuff to each other that
pulling stuff from each other right so
for now we saw kind of three different
things we saw the ability to like alert
stuff we saw the ability to console log
stuff and we saw the ability to return
stuff and in our next couple classes
we're gonna spend a lot more time with
these functions uh if
you haven't done the reading make sure
you do the reading on function so you
can get more practice with this stuff
i'll of course share all my code from
today
uh on discord after class
uh there is a bring it home
a bring it home challenge if you look in
the starter code from today there's this
bring it home practice i want you to do
this for homework right make sure you do
this for homework i'm asking you to use
variables functions conditionals three
of the big four that we've seen already
so this is this is your challenge for
today and tomorrow make sure you do this
for our homework please
then
please for the love
of all that is in this world
comment out all your js
type it all out again without looking
peek if you have to repeat
doing this process until you don't need
to look at your javascript anymore for
all the examples that we've done
or the bachelor code for the temperature
converter for these
three functions that we just did thank
you for the engagement right
make sure
that you are
everyone just gets got when i spell
stuff wrong i don't like it it's a me
with this play but people still like get
up on ours about it i love it
please make sure i've asked you to do
this three or four times because it
really does truly truly work so please
make sure you do it the bring the
homework
the bring the home assignment make sure
you do this process of deleting retyping
deleting retyping play break
tweet out using the hundred devs hashtag
any of the stuff that you take and make
this extra you make it your own i want
to see them i want to retweet them i
want to see what you're building uh
remember we're we're going up against
papa john's
go ahead and follow me if you want i'm
going to start releasing more short form
content on um
youtube and on tick-tock and all that
fun stuff but for the rest of tonight we
have a lovely
raid i will see you all on sunday uh on
sunday we are going to
do more of this practice
we are going to practice more of these
functions this javascript if it was hard
we're also going to look at some of our
past layouts so if you want to look at
some layouts together come back on
sunday if you want to do more of
this um
of this javascript stuff like if it
didn't make sense that's okay we're
gonna come back and do it again on
sunday and then guess what we're gonna
do freelancing next week and we're gonna
do even more javascript review and
practice so plenty of time
um for this stuff to kind of sink in for
it to make sense but for now
let's get ready and raid so as always
give them some follows spread some love
some positivity good vibes have a good
rest of your night
and i will see you all on sunday thanks
for uh doing some javascript with me
peace everyone
let's raid